To: Dr. Deanor Glenduil - Head of Research IPA
From: Mikash Dailrond, MC
Date: ???

----------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Professor Glenduil,

It has finally happened. The Council has found our arguments strong enough to approve of our project. I believe the initial funding should be sufficient to cover the instruments and equipment required for the extraction of the crystals. We will need to find the most appropriate terrain for our endeavor.

The debate at the Council was exhausting. Nemir thought I was crazy. He insisted that disturbing the "delicate balance" of the stormlands would be detrimental to our cause. He doesn't understand that there is no other option. Only the misty crystals found there will work, as no other material will hold energy in such quantities. He is also quite disgruntled with my proposition, but i sincerely believe that creation of a chaos septstone is the only means to our salvation.

The vote in council was split, but not by any of Nemirs arguements, he may be highly regarded as intelligent in the academy, but in the world of politics he is completely inept. No, The votes we split due to the superstitions and traditions of the older members, many of whom regard the stormlands as a foreign almost mystical realm. They doubt that it will be possible to sufficiently isolate ourselves from any of the effects there long enough to extract our materials. Luckily only the most stubborn of them are unwilling to let us attempt the extraction as a first stage and a couple key figures were able to be convinced via... alternative persuasion tactics. Your endorsement of the project helped significantly as well.

Despite his ineffectiveness in Council, Nemir still remains our largest potential roadblock. He knows enough to not be swept up in mysticism about the stormlands, which considering all the time he has spent studying them shouldn't be surprising. His concern is on the secondary effects the creation of such a septstone might have, a topic on which he has rambled to my for many hours. He feels that our understanding of septstones is not sufficient to understand the effects. he also thinks precautions should be taken such as forming septsones in balanced pairs.

Eventually I think he will come around and understand how necessary this is, as I am now convinced that the stagnation in the world is the result of our plane's shift towards Order. Until that point though I feel it is in our best interest that you use your position to keep Nemir at arms length from the project. Maybe give him a new research project to expend his effort on. Nemir always becomes blind to the world when you set a puzzle before him. Its a shame, his knowledge would have been useful especially in phase 2 of the project due to his expertise in portals, but we are capable of carrying out this project ourselves. In fact it might be helpful to surreptitiously obtain his help by posing some of the problems we have with phase 2 to him in some veiled manner. 

You must forgive me but I have run out of paper and must continue on the back. These words will be tracable, but with the support of the Council now behind us, I doubt anyone would dare snoop.

As I was saying, The increasing stagnation and deterioration which follows can have no other explanation then planar displacement. Nemir has no affinity for water, a pity in my eyes given that his mother is forest folk, but I do. I know that the currents have slowed down Glenduil. Rivers are becoming creeks and lakes are are becoming pestilent ponds. This is not the work of what few remaining necromancers factions exist. They don't have the power or means to bring this kind of effect. Besides as disgusting as their practice is, they are not killers and rather scavengers.

In order to co-ordinate our next steps I think its best if we meet in person. I have some matters to attend to here in Council over the next few weeks. As you know my father is in the process of stepping down from his council seat and handing it off to me so my daily duties have become quite intensive. In addition there are some important votes coming up in the next few weeks. However I think I should be able to make the trip to the academy and co-ordinate with you in about three spans time. Would this work for you? In the mean time we should co-ordinate some survey teams for the stormlands. Do you think you can arrange that?

I hope all is well with you.

- Mikash Dailrond, MC