To: Dr. Deanor Glenduil - Head of Research IPA
From: Mikash Dailrond, MC
Date: ???

----------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Professor Glenduil,

My latest observations indicate the crystals are working. The cave we have set up in is almost ready and the circuit is almost completed. I have just returned from the site personally and oversaw the the team arranging the crystals while they worked on the second sub-grid. After they finished we performed a partial test charging of the section and the results were quite impressive. Most of the crystals immediately jumped to life and started glowing. The sensation of being near so much flowing aether was exhilarating!

You really must take a visit there yourself soon, I know you are uncomfortable leaving your office lest the academy explode, implode, burn down or grow a sentient vine-monster but this is really worth the visit. The pattern we adapted from Nemir's work is truely a work of art even in its partially complete stage.

Some of our collaborators are becoming slightly uneasy. I understand their concern, during the last test charge there was a perceptible vibration which could be felt half-way to Hanilem and the air started to glimmer throughout the cave. It feels like waiting for a storm, only in this case one that has been produced entirely on purpose.

This scale of aether harnessing has never been done before and that fact alone is enough to warrant some caution. Though I feel that our support in the Council might be waning somewhat as the realization of the scale of what we are doing dawns of them. This isn't the time to quit though, especially in light of the continuing situation. Did you hear about Lake Sumu almost completely disappearing? There is no way this is a natural phenomena. We must take action to correct the situation.

On a side note, while discussing progress with the workers, it was noted that the ratio of sufficiently pure mist-stones for our purposes is somewhat lower then we had anticipated. In fact its at only about 10% when we were hoping for, as I recall, around 45%. This is slowing down progress considerably and it looks like our timetables might be pushed back by quite a bit. I'm not sure what is the source of the failures but there is no way I can see around it. I saw first hand what happens to a powered crystal that is not sufficiently pure. The wave created by the released aether is quite strong.

In any case, I am more certain then ever that this project holds the key to our survival. I'm going to work on calming some of the fears in the Council, it would be extremely benefitial if you could possibly delay, edit or remove some of the reports coming out of the academy to better suite our goals. And for Falorin's sake keep Nemir busy! Did you know I crossed paths with him on the way back from the site? I don't know what he was doing there, gave some rambling answer about following the wind or some such nonsense. If he stumbles onto our project he will be sure to recognize it for what it is.

Yours,

	Mikash Dailrond, MC